well Jennifer Austin deputy director for
the United Nations relief and works
Agency for Palestine refugees joins us
uh also from Gaza thank you so much for
being on Alit here I imagine that you uh
absolutely run off your feet um at this
point in time we know that there are
shortages of food water power fuel
medical supplies almost everything is
running out very very quickly can you
just give us a bit of an update of how
dire the situation is there right
now thank you and good evening yes it is
exhausting but it's more exhausting for
the staff of the unur who are working
tirelessly to provide services to the
refugees and I think I heard earlier in
your um earlier speaker talking about
our our schools our shelters that we've
got 270,000 uh idps are in our shelters
and yeah we are really stretched um our
emergency response plans cater for
150,000 clearly like after a few days
and we now into day six we've almost
exhausted all our supplies it's
extremely extremely difficult yeah we've
just heard that fuel at El shifa
hospital is going to run out in three
days which could potentially mean that
1,700 patients that are at that hospital
could die I mean that that's the kind of
situation that people are dealing with
or living with there is there a plan for
for when these supplies do eventually
run out
completely
well um that's not part of the of the UN
um plan because that that's that's sits
outside of the unu but I'm not sure this
is part of the who's plan I guess but
what uh what we're doing is we're trying
to mobilize fuel resources that we can
um get our get available um you know we
need to have fuel fuel into Gaza is the
most critical because fuel is running
the desalination plants so it's got we
can get clean drinking water fuel is
running um the the generators for the
hospitals you know without fuel um you
know gazer is in really big big trouble
yeah we know many people and and
organizations are calling for a safe
passage to allow civilians uh to get out
of Gaza but also allow Aid and supplies
in and I know that you you're clearly
one of them who are you talking to about
trying to get a safe passage
open well our commissioner General has
been working tirelessly at the highest
levels you know up to their Secretary
General I'm sure that everyone is doing
all the advocacy needed working with
Egypt trying to get safe Passage through
Egypt Egypt and Rafa seems to be the
only available option at the
moment how you personally and your your
teams there how long will you be able to
operate because obviously you're
suffering like everyone else in Gaza at
this point in
time yeah look that's thank you there we
really are suffering we've got in our in
our shelters we've got 270,000 idps as I
said now we've got you know water for
out of out of um I think it's over a 100
shelters we we we've got now and and
we've got clean water for 50 of those
and we can you know move water around
and things like that we will last for 10
days or up anything from 4 days to 10
days we will run out of water so it
depends and if we if there's in a ground
incursion or anything like that then we
can't run our operations because we
can't put our staff at risk and
therefore you know we can't refuel the
generators that run the desalination
plants that we have um within our within
our shelters and if we can't refuel the
generators then we can't get the clean
water so we need to be able to get
access to our shelters we need even safe
passage to get to our shelters so we can
refuel them so we can get clean water
for people if we can't you know get the
fuel into the into the shelters then
we're in trouble as as well incredible
it's anywhere from 4 days to 10 days
it's it's a really tight timeline and
it's changing every day and every day we
get more people coming in and you know
it's a moving feast and it's really
difficult to get the data because roads
are closed telephone lines are down and
now that the power's been cut off um
people's telephones will have run out
and charging and things like that so
it's really hard for us to know on the
ground to get a feel for it but all we
know is that it's just so bad and so
critical um and it's very very difficult
but we've got over 5,000 of our staff
are working across the whole of the Gaza
Strip um to look after the people who
are in our
shelters incredible work that you and
your team are doing in in the most dire
of circumstances we really do appreciate
you taking time uh to talk to us and
explain what you and your team are going
through uh there in Gaza that is
Jennifer Austin deputy director for the
United Nations relief and works Agency
for Palestine refugees thank you so much